to understand the sorting problem more
deeply let's consider this game called
puppy cat dog now warn you in advance
this this game is going to quite
possibly make you feel dumb because it
feels like it should be easy but it's
actually hard something about the
thinking at least for my brain isn't
natural but here's how it goes so puppy
cat dog is played as follows we have
three boxes a B and C and we're going to
load up our puppy our cat and our dog
into one of these three boxes and we
want to figure out which one is which
using a scale so each of these boxes is
a pake we can't see inside there's no
sound coming out of it the only way we
can get information from it in our
thought experiment here is using a scale
and then I'll tell us which one's
heavier than the other and we're going
to assume that the puppy is lighter in
weight in the cat which is lighter in
weight than the dog and let's say their
weights are all unique just to keep our
sink thinking simple so let's imagine
that we used to we weigh our two items a
and B so we take this box day in this
box beam we find that a is indeed less
than B so B is another words bigger than
a and let's say we also find that b is
less than C or equivalently see it's
bigger than be the question is which is
which okay well hopefully it's clear
that a is bumpy these the cat and c is
the dog so in other words if we wanted
to sort these three boxes the sorted
order is ABC okay now how about next up
we have the opposite happens right we
say that is a less than B no ok B's
bigger than X so p is bigger than a and
then we say is be less than C note C is
bigger than be okay so in that case see
you is bigger than B be used bigger than
a and so if we say which is which we
have the opposite order that sees the
puppy be use the cat and a is the dog
right in other words the sorted order is
C be a that's what these orders tell us
okay question for you to see if this
game makes sense and this is where it's
going to start making me feel dumb the
question is which is which if we find
that a is less than B but B is not less
than C ok so I'll give really think
about this right because there's no
reason to watch me do this it'll just be
confusing so really think about this one
I think it's pretty approachable problem
okay so it turns out a little bit of a
trick question there's actually two
possible answers right so if we say that
a is less than B & B is not less than C
there's actually two possibilities so
while all we know can we know that a is
less than B these are the two answers
consistent with the hypothesis and we
know that c is greater than so we know
that b is greater than C so both of
these have the properties that b is
greater than C and the a is less than C
and there's no way these like these two
measurements only resolve it down to the
level of specification of these two
items it's kind of interesting right you
didn't really think that asymmetry was
going to happen both will see in the
diagram soon it was just had to happen
but I hope that makes sense right
there's only there's two possible things
consistent with this ordering and so
just spoiled so the question is what
question caster is all the ambiguity
okay well so I guess it's pretty natural
here so if we wanted to resolve the same
vacuity what do we know we know a is
less than B and we know that that b is
greater than C but we don't know if you
look at these two and you think what do
we not know we don't know a and C your
order so we could ask the question is a
less than see if the answer were yes
then the answer would simply be a CB or
puppy a is puffy see is cat b stock
would be this row right here okay so if
you're feeling a little like huh how is
that like trickier than I expected that
just kind of goes with this like don't
don't feel bad about that maybe even
just go do that exercise again maybe not
right now but don't know an hour or
something okay so we can actually draw
at a decision tree and this is basically
if you wanted to write down the
instructions to somebody have never
played the game knows how to win do you
have you to have them give them a card
notes say at top ask is a less than B or
in other words take a and B put them on
the scale oops and the answer we're yes
well you still have to ask another
question we ask is be less than see if
these answer is yes then you know the
answer you know that a is puppy be is
can't and see his dog or in other words
in sorted order there a B C now the
answer is no that's actually the problem
we just ran into if the answer was yes
then no and we actually have to ask
another question to resolve the result
so the answer is yes it would be exactly
what was just on the previous slide we
have a
puppy sees can't be used on a CB the
answer is no in that case it C is puppy
a is can't be is dog so it just tells
you which order a and C should go in
right now what this question tells you
on the other hand we also have the no
side of the tree i'm not going to show
it you can derive us maybe it's a fun
exercise and this right here is
everything you need to know to win the
game of puppy cat dog so a question for
you given what we just learned here
maybe look at this diagram that's a
pretty challenging problem but the
question is how many questions right how
many weighings how many times you need
to do a weighing measurement do you need
to solve the puppy cat dog walrus
problem what's that problem is the same
thing but now with four of creatures in
the set of three and the question is
well for puppy cat dog we had to ask
three questions in the worst case the
question is for puppy cat dog walrus
what's the worst case number of
questions you need to ask to definitely
solve the problem I guess what's up this
diagram up it's probably more useful for
thinking I will probably take a little
time to think about give yourself to
nuts okay so if we had puppy cat dog
walrus here's the trick so with cat
there are three items alright recycling
with three things there are six
permutations but once you had a fourth
item there are now four times as many
permutations as before so in other words
before we have three factorial now we
have four factorial there's 24 total
permutations now since each of our
decisions is on a binary tree we need
basically a hierarchy where we ask a
bunch of questions and at the bottom
we're going to count the number of
leaves this is a number of resolutions
so for puppy cat dog there were six
leaves for walrus will be 24 leaves and
so the question basically amounts to how
many if we have a binary search tree or
sign about binary search tree a binary
tree how many levels do we need to have
24 leaves so we can compute the log base
two of 24 and get 4.5 and we have to
round up because you can't have my part
of a level and so the result will be
is the minimum okay some of the words we
could have done it for public at dog and
said there's six leaves so to deal with
that we need a log base two of six
levels and we see that okay so that's
two point five levels roughly but we
don't use the entire levels wait sent
right 2.5 log base 2 of 6 know that's a
calculator blog 2 of 6 it's 2.5 eight
levels and so we have to round up right
so we didn't use all that third level
but we have to do festivus M&A we got
and so with puppy cat dog walrus the
question or we'd get the same thing it's
around 4.5 until we get five as our
minimum yeah so that's the heart of the
argument we're going to use for sorting
soon and I'll talk about that a little
more in the next video